SOURCE: Mak v. City of Berkeley Rent Stabilization Board, California Court of Appeal, First Appellate District (filed September 2, 2015)
URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2837910/mak-v-city-of-berkeley-rent-stabilization-board/

We here affirm the rejection by the City of Berkeley Rent Stabilization Board (Rent Board) and by the superior court of a landlord's transparent attempt to circumvent the provisions of local rent control provisions. Appellants Jason and Karen Mak own a residential rental property with four apartments in Berkeley. In February 2012 they served on Elizabeth Burns, a tenant in one of those apartments for 28 years, a 60-day eviction notice, asserting that Jason Mak intended to occupy the apartment.

Section 1946.1 provides that "(a) ... a hiring of residential real property for a term not specified by the parties, is deemed to be renewed as stated in Section 1945, at the end of the term implied by law unless one of the parties gives written notice to the other of his or her intention to terminate the tenancy, as provided in this section. [para] (b) An owner of a residential dwelling giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 60 days prior to the proposed date of termination. . . ."

Notwithstanding the reference in the agreement between the Maks and Burns to notice having been given pursuant to section 1946, the parties do not dispute that the February 2012 notice served on Burns was served pursuant to section 1946.1. Regulation 1016 refers to a 30-day notice under section 1946, but subparagraph D of the regulation makes clear that the regulation applies to any request from a landlord to vacate a unit so the landlord or a relative of the landlord may occupy the unit as his or her principal residence.

The Act does not prohibit the application of rent control limits to a new tenant if the preceding tenancy has been terminated by the owner by notice pursuant to Section 1946.1. Since the Rent Board found, based on evidence the sufficiency of which is not challenged, that the Burns tenancy was terminated pursuant to such a notice, it follows without more that its order establishing the maximum rental rate for the property is valid and enforceable.
